S. R. Ranganathan Learning Hub Welcome To S.R. Ranganathan Learning Hub Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Click here to Access Previous Next Announcements News News about Journal Impact Factor in the latest JCR 2025 Click here to know more Catalogue Search Library catalog Title Author Subject ISBN Series Call Number Barcode Select Item Type e-books Books Textbooks Book Bank Course Reserves Hindi Books Children's Book Project Books Reference Book Theses Regional Language Books Search Membership Form for Employees Membership Form for Students Article Request Form Article Request Form Faculty Members, Students, and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur, may please use the following form to request articles that are outside the Library collection of journal resources. Close Inter-Library Loan Request Form Inter-Library Loan Request Form Close Scan on Demand Scan on Demand Close A-Z resources Resource Guides Pay Overdue Fine New Arrivals Library @ a glance 0 Books 0 e-Books 0 Journals 0 Theses 0 Research Databases 0 Leisure Reading 0 Newspapers 0 Research Support Tools Everything You Are Looking For Library Services Off-Campus Resource Access Tool/Remote Access Tool Catalogue Inter-Library Loan Service Document Delivery Service A-Z Resources Scan on Demand SRRLH Mobile App eBookSelect Pro Academic Support Tools All Databases Scopus Web of Science SciFinder-n Grammarly Turnitin Mendeley Zotero Quick Guide Quick Links Faculty Research Profile Shodhganga NDLI Catalogues of other IITs NPTEL IITJ Repository FAQs OER (Insight) Video Guides QR Codes ScholarSphere ONOS IITJ Research Data Visualization Events What's New In Library One Nation One Subscription (An initiative of Govt. of India) The Prime Minister emphasized the significance of research during his 2022 Independence Day address, coining the phrase "Jai Anusandhan." Aligning with NEP 2020 and the vision of Viksit Bharat@2047, the Government launched the One Nation One Subscription (ONOS) scheme to ensure nationwide access to global scholarly resources for researchers and academic institutions. Click here to Access Writings and Speeches of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar The digital resources comprising Dr. B. R. Ambedkar's collected writings and speeches which are available in following open-source links. Dr Ambedkar Foundation, GoI Ministry of External Affairs, GoI Multimedia Fluid Mechanics Online Library has access to the Multimedia Fluid Mechanincs Online Click here to Access IOP e-Books Library provides you the access to the IOP e-Books Click here to Access Service Hours Opening Hours Monday - Saturday 9:00 am to 8:00 pm Reading Areas Open 24 x 7 hours Transaction Hours Monday - Saturday 9:00 am to 8:00 pm Holidays Sundays and Institute Holidays Events